the social media that you should be
focused on in 2024 above all else is
MySpace Myspace is going to be making a
huge comeback in 2024 so now is the time
to go to myspace.com and sign up I'm
kidding of course I don't think Myspace
is going to make a big comeback in 2024
so instead in today's episode we're
going to talk about the different social
media apps and which one is really best
for growing a following and building a
personal brand or business in
2024 I have experience on pretty much
every single social network going all
the way way back to Twitter in 2012 when
I used my Twitter account to build what
was then my business at the time which
was reselling these powerbalance
wristbands except for I would add
rhinestones and then I would use Twitter
in order to promote and sell those I
called myself Power Balance Brock I also
was such an avid user of Four Square
which is an app that a lot of people
have probably never even heard of that I
had four square merchandise and I
remember my first day of school outfit
for sixth grade was a four square
t-shirt that's how Avid of a social
media user I was even all the way back
in elementary school I've been on Tik
Tok since 2018 I've been on Instagram
since 2012 I've been on Facebook I've
been posting YouTube videos since I was
in Middle School I've been around I have
a lot of experience on all the different
social media apps and I can confidently
tell you that you can have success on
pretty much any app whether it's
Pinterest LinkedIn Twitter Facebook
Instagram YouTube threads Tik Tok
whatever you can have success now of
course the question is which platform is
it easiest to have success on on and
then kind of the second question is not
only which platform is it easiest to
have success on which platform can you
have the most success on but if you
clicked on this video because you want
me to come through your screen right now
rip your phone out of your hand and tell
you force you to pick one social media
app I can't do that and unfortunately
the purpose of this video is not to make
an argument that Instagram is number one
and you need to forget everything else
or that Tik Tok is the future of social
media and every other social network is
going to die within the next few years
that's not what I'm going to do today
and honestly I think that any content
creator any educator or entrepreneur who
tells you that one platform is the
ultimate only platform that you should
focus on and every other platform is a
waste of your time I feel like that
person is ill-informed or at least
they're misinforming you probably
because they have their own biases and
listen I understand biases I'm a huge
fan of Instagram I sell and my number
one source of income is a membership
about growing on Instagram my largest
following is on in stagram I have the
most success and the most sales coming
from Instagram yet I'm not going to sit
here and tell you that Instagram is the
only platform or the must have platform
for 2024 I do however think that
Instagram is one of the top three and so
for the majority of today's episode
we're going to be looking at those top
three the top three in my opinion in
2024 are YouTube Instagram and Tik Tok
in no particular order I do want to give
you one piece of advice before we go
through the rest of this episode though
and that is no matter which social
network you pick whether you pick one of
the top three that I'm going to be
focused on for the remainder of this
episode or you decide to pick something
else like Twitter or Pinterest or
LinkedIn commit to that platform one of
the biggest mistakes that people make
early on when trying to build a personal
brand or business on social media is
they spread themselves really thin
because they don't have a team they
don't have content systems they don't
have a backlog of years worth of content
that they can repurpose and reuse and
they try to post consistently every
single day on Tik Tok and Instagram and
Twitter and Facebook and all the other
platforms and they get burnt out really
quickly and because they're spreading
themselves so thin they never truly pour
into one community on one platform and
so they don't see success on any of
their platforms they don't see growth or
new sales or new followers or new
customers on any social media it's kind
of like if you started out 2024 with the
goal of running a sub three-hour
marathon and becoming an Olympic
powerlifter and becoming a world
champion downhill skier and setting your
own personal best in two laps across the
swimming pool your goals are just spread
out across too many different areas to
have success in any of those one areas
and so like I said you can have success
on any platform but I do believe some
platforms are better than others
ultimately though it's going to come
down to your consistency and your
willingness to commit and honestly
embrace the suck regardless of the
platform you choose because there is no
platform without some suck there is no
platform out there that doesn't have
some element of challenge or some
sticking point that makes it that much
more difficult than the rest every
platform has its pros but also every
platform has its cons and so let's hop
into my pros and cons of the top three
which again are YouTube Instagram and
Tik Tok let's start with my personal
favorite but not necessarily the one
that I'm going to tell you you have to
stick with which is Instagram the pros
of Instagram number one according to a
study by carrot Financial Instagram has
the highest value per follower Carro did
a really interesting study where they
looked at a wide variety of businesses
and they took the actual amount of
revenue generated and then divided that
by the amount of followers that that
company has on the platform that
generated them the money so like to put
it into real world numbers if you made
$11,000 from Instagram and you had 100
followers on Instagram then the value of
each of your followers on Instagram
would be $10 that would be an
astronomical number that would be crazy
super high but what they actually found
is that the a average value of one
Instagram follower is about 77 and you
might think wow that's kind of crazy low
like it's less than a dollar yes but
wait till you hear the rest the average
value of one follower AKA subscriber on
YouTube was only 17 cents so 60 cents
lower and the average value of a Tik Tok
follower was only 7 cents so 11 times
lower than that of an Instagram follower
and the reason for this is that there
have been so many studies showing that
people go to in Instagram often times to
follow Brands to connect with Brands and
to search out products that they end up
buying Instagram also makes it very easy
for people to become Shoppers they've
had the Instagram shop for a few years
now they have the link in BIO you can
put links in stories you can put
clickable links in the direct messages
so your ability to sell on Instagram is
Diversified and it's a lot easier than a
lot of other platforms Instagram very
much caters to the business owner who's
looking to sell things online and so
that's another Pro of Instagram it's
just the ease of making sales now of
course when I say the ease of making
sales that doesn't mean that you just
sign up for Instagram and you can just
start raking in the money but it does
mean that if you have a th subscribers
on YouTube 1 th000 followers on
Instagram and 1 th000 followers on Tik
Tok you can expect the easiest sales
process to take place on Instagram and
most likely the majority of your sales
to come from those thousand Instagram
followers I also think another Pro of
Instagram is the diversity of content
often times people point to this as a
negative for Instagram right they're
like well there's reals and live videos
and stories and carousels and feed posts
and DMS and D all these other kinds of
posts on Instagram but I actually think
that this is a benefit or a pro of using
Instagram because if you're someone who
prefers posting and taking photos
there's a space for you on Instagram if
you're someone who prefers making 90c
direct to camera videos there's a place
for you on Instagram if you're someone
who really likes making short form quick
edited videos there's a place for you on
Instagram with reals if you're someone
who likes doing documentary style behind
the scenes direct to camera content
that's Instagram stories so no matter
what kind of content you prefer creating
visual content graphic design content
audio content there is a space for you
on Instagram and generally speaking
across Instagram while there used to be
a heavy favoritism towards reals it's
now pretty balanced and regardless if
you're someone who posts carousels reals
or photos you can expect pretty similar
results and so that's a real benefit of
Instagram in 2024 that maybe wasn't
around so prevalently in 2022 and even
2023 Instagram has its cons though and
the biggest con is probably related to
the previous Pro which is that there's
just a lot on Instagram there's a lot of
changes a lot of new updates a lot of
new features things that are always kind
of being manipulated they're always
coming out with new things new tests new
features new abilities new buttons
changing the layout and design on us and
for a lot of people that can be a source
of frustration and headache and to give
ourselves a quick little plug that is
why we created the insta clubhub because
we heard that so many other
entrepreneurs were basically having to
become their own Instagram experts just
in order to grow on Instagram so we're
like hey let's do that for you we'll
teach you how to grow we'll tell you
what you need to know like yeah there
were 17 new features this week but
here's the three that really matter and
here's how you can actually use them for
your business and that's what we
disseminate that's what we give you
inside the insta clubhub as well as tons
of ideas for posts and hooks
personalized lessons to meet you where
you are whether you're an Instagram
newbie or an Instagram expert you can
learn more about the insta clubhub and
join for two weeks for just $7 by
clicking the link down in the show notes
or in the description below this video
or this episode highly recommend joining
the club of course but again that is a
con of Instagram right is that it's
challenging to keep up with another con
of Instagram is that it is quite
saturated Instagram has over two billion
users and it's been around for over a
decade now which means there's just a
lot of accounts there's a lot of people
probably talking about what you do
selling what you sell promoting what you
promote that could be considered a pro
because there is a market on Instagram
but also that could be considered a con
because that market likely already has
someone selling to them that market has
likely already seen what you have to
offer of course there are exceptions of
course there are specific niches new
products and things like that that are
fresh and totally unsaturated but
nonetheless Instagram has 2 billion
users it's a pretty saturated place also
speaking of cons for in Instagram there
is little to no Pay-per-view on
Instagram in 2022 there was a program
called reals bonuses where people could
get paid based off the amount of views
they received on their reels now the
only real way pun intended that you can
get paid for your reels is if you turn
on the ads on reels feature which
basically allows Instagram to run ads
like a little tiny Banner of an
advertisement on the bottom of your reel
and then you can get paid by the views
that you're receiving I will tell you
the pay-per-view system system is very
very low and that's why if you're
expecting to get paid just for the views
you're ranking in on Instagram you're
likely going to get paid very little I
do want to say though it is absolutely
not too late to grow on Instagram
numerous of our students inside the club
have grown their account to over 100,000
I'm thinking of Tracy from juicing
recipes I'm thinking of Sarah and mark
from the mobility Duo who grew from like
5,000 to now over 200,000 I'm thinking
of Sharice Allison who has over 990,000
followers I'm thinking of so many of our
other club members who have grown their
accounts massively and they're not just
people teaching other people how to grow
on Instagram which is often times
something that I hear is that the only
people who grow on Instagram are people
teaching other people how to grow on
Instagram and that just isn't true we
have so many members inside our club who
are growing in fact our average top
insta clubhub member grew by 42% 42%
more followers in 2023 so while yes it
is a saturated platform it's not too
saturated it's not too late to grow all
right now let's move into the second of
my top three which again this isn't in
any particular order but the second of
my top three platforms for 2024 and that
is YouTube if I could go back in time
like 10 years ago I would tell myself to
focus on YouTube and that's not because
YouTube is just so much better than Tik
Tok or Instagram or anything else but
just because YouTube takes time and
we'll talk about this more with the cons
of YouTube but one of the big pros of
YouTube is that it can last for a long
time also known as it is the most
Evergreen of all of your content one of
the big challenges with most social
media is you spend hours making a post
you post it and then 24 to 48 hours
later the amount of views you're
receiving is like 1 or 2% of the total
views like a day or two after you post
your content hardly anyone is going to
see it that's different than what you
typically see on YouTube on YouTube
based off the title recommendations and
lots of other factors you could be
getting views a decade later Sean Kel
who's a YouTube expert who we've had on
the show here before has talked about
how he posted a video about green juice
about 10 years ago and he's still making
thousands of dollars every single month
for the views that that video is raking
in he likes to call it views while you
snooze and that is absolutely the case
on YouTube you put in a lot of work
upfront to create these videos and then
if they are positioned correctly they
can Rank and still get views years after
they were originally posted speaking of
ranking one of the real pros of YouTube
is SEO search engine optimization and
while Instagram and Tik Tok are pouring
heavily into the discoverability
features and the SEO on their platforms
SEO on YouTube is its bread and butter
in case you didn't know this YouTube is
owned by Google Google is of course the
world's biggest search engine YouTube is
the world's second biggest search engine
and so people are always going to
YouTube and Google to look for things to
search for things and that's how they
can find your videos that's how your
videos can get discovered years after
they were originally posted and that's
how you can organically grow your
following your audience and your
subscribers on YouTube YouTube also has
one of the best pay-per-view programs in
the industry I would call it the gold
standard of pay-per-view so that mean
you're going to be making thousands of
dollars for every video you post right
when you get started no but the amount
of money that you are paid per view on
YouTube is higher than pretty much any
other platform and of course because
it's backed by a very established and
secure platform like Google and because
YouTube itself has been around for so
long now it's a very trustworthy program
it's not as flighty or here and there or
up and down as something like reals
bonuses or Tik Tok I would also say a
pro of YouTube and this is kind of just
like an opinion thing is that it's the
most respected if you tell someone
you're a YouTuber you're likely going to
have more credibility than you would if
you were to say you're an instagrammer
or a Tik tocker maybe that doesn't
matter to you and I'm not saying that it
should matter to you but YouTube has
been around for so long and the idea of
being a YouTuber has been around for so
long that it's more well expected maybe
by your family or at least within the
industry all right those were the pros
let's talk about the cons of YouTube
like I said when I first brought it up I
wish I would have been consistent on
YouTube 10 years ago and stayed
consistent the that entire time and
that's because YouTube is the hardest or
maybe I should say it takes the longest
to see results on average it takes more
than 100 uploads to YouTube to reach
1,000 followers and really a follower on
YouTube is called a subscriber but I
kind of use those terms interchangeably
because pretty much every other platform
use the term follower but YouTube still
uses subscriber but regardless if you
use the term follower or subscriber it
takes a long time to grow on YouTube it
takes a lot of consistency it takes a
lot of uploads to see results in most
cases of course there are anomalies
there are viral videos there are those
accounts that upload once 15 years ago
they get millions and millions of views
and millions of subscribers but that is
definitely the exception and not the
rule another con of YouTube is it takes
the highest production value if I wanted
to record a Tik Tok or a real all I
really need is my phone and yes W that
is true when you are getting started on
YouTube all you need is your phone has
an HD camera built in it has a
microphone built in you can just boom
set it up and start recording that's
true when you're first getting started
as you start to look at some of these
top YouTubers the ones who are having
the most success the ones who are having
you know the biggest growth the most
subscribers the most views they're not
just recording on their phone they're
recording on a professional camera like
I am right now they have a professional
microphone they have lighting they have
editors they have systems they have
teams and so oftentimes the best
YouTubers the most successful YouTubers
also have the highest production value
the ease of creating content that you
might experience on Tik Tok or Instagram
isn't seen so commonly on YouTube and so
maybe that's a barrier of entry for you
you understand that you can start with
your phone but you know that it's not
realistic for you to ever have a
professional camera microphone lighting
audio all of that good stuff and so
maybe YouTube isn't for you and then
just like Instagram because YouTube has
been around for so along it's very
saturated as of the end of 2023 and
beginning of 2024 most sources say that
there are between 800 million and 1
billion Total videos on YouTube that's a
lot of content to compete with also
another thing that you could consider a
pro or a con of YouTube is the
consumption most people consume Tik Tok
and Instagram almost exclusively on
their phone and very few people are
consuming Instagram and Tik Tok on a
computer or on a TV the opposite is true
with YouTube though YouTube is very
heavily consumed on TVs and on computers
and while it is absolutely consumed on
mobile and in fact the majority of
YouTube content is consumed on mobile it
is still a platform that when compared
to all the other social networks is
heavily used outside of just the phone
so maybe that's a pro maybe that's a con
depends on how you look at it all right
now let's talk about Tik Tok the new kit
on the Block even though I don't think
you can still consider it that because
it's been around for a few years now Tik
Tok absolutely blew up in 2020 and while
a lot of people were concerned of
whether or not it would be here one day
and gone the next like Clubhouse and
many other social networks Tik Tok has
proven that it has staying power it has
longevity and it has continue to adapt
and change over time and I give a real
Kudo and pat on the back to the team at
Tik Tok because they have done a great
job of continuing to update the platform
to keep it relevant unlike a lot of
platforms that came about over the last
few years speaking of Tik tok's wild
viral success let's hop into its pros
the first one being that it is the
platform still to this day where it is
the easiest quote unquote to go viral
now that's not to say that it is easy
but it is easier to go viral on Tik Tok
than it is on platforms like Instagram
Twitter Facebook YouTube Etc I will tell
you from personal experience it was
definitely a lot easier to go viral on
Tik Tok in 2019 but it is still possible
today in 2024 and so because of that
another Pro of Tik Tok is that it's
often the easiest platform to have a
very wide exposure and get a lot of
views now you might say that that's very
similar to going viral but one of the
cool things about Tik Tok is that even
with a low following you can have videos
pop off and reach millions and millions
of people and I'm not going to get deep
into the Tik Tok algorithm and how it
works but one key difference between the
Tik Tok algorithm and every other
algorithm is that Tik Tok and its
algorithm really primarily cares about
your content the actual video itself the
topic of the video and the quality of
the video and it cares a lot less about
all of the different other social
components so what I mean by that is you
could post the exact same video on
Instagram as you did on Tik Tok and in
Instagram's algorithm is going to look
at what kind of videos do your followers
like what kind of videos do the people
you follow like it very much cares about
all of those different social components
it's looking at friends of friends and
seeing what their interests are it's
looking at what people have consumed in
the past what they have engaged with in
the past and it's really heavily
dependent on relationships Tik Tok
however cares a lot less about those
relationships and those connections Tik
Tok is really primarily almost
exclusively concerned with what is this
video what's it about and is it high
quality if it's high quality and it's
related to a topic that people would
want to see it will show them that topic
so for example let's say there are
300,000 people on Tik Tok who are
obsessed with mountain biking in
Colorado and you just started a brand
new Tik Tok account you have 10
followers but you posted a really great
high quality maybe it's super funny and
relatable or super educational video
about mountain biking in Colorado well
you now have potentially 300,000 viewers
and if that video is really that high
quality and it's really getting that
much engagement Tik Tok will make sure
all of those people see it and then the
final Pro of Tik Tok is that it is the
lowest barrier of entry in terms of
content the production value that people
expect and even prefer on Tik Tok is far
lower than any other platform on YouTube
people are used to Mr Beast Style videos
with lots of editing transitions Cuts
effects audio all of that good stuff and
on Instagram people are often times used
to a lot of the same reals with lots of
editing transitions Cuts b-roll
background all that good stuff people
really like that authentic genuine down
toe Style video where it seems like it
was just recorded on your phone without
any external editing or effects at it
yes lighting matters yes audio matters
but at the end of the day if all you
have is your phone that's plenty for Tik
Tok all right now let's talk about the
cons of Tik Tok number one and this has
been confirmed by so many Tik Tok
creators that I've spoken with it is
very challenging to sell on Tik Tok if
if you think about sales as a funnel
where at the top you have the eyeballs
the attention you're kind of getting the
audience warm and then you slowly work
your way down until they become a
customer Tik Tok really only exists at
the top of the funnel and it's very
difficult to get people to the bottom of
the funnel on Tik Tok the bottom of the
funnel being actually putting in their
credit card or signing up for your email
list that's quite tough to do and that's
because you're pretty Limited in terms
of ways you can promote and ways you can
even make sales on Tik Tok yes there is
the direct messages but the direct
messages on Tik Tok are a very very
hardly utilized feature people may use
the Tik Tok DMS to send videos to their
friends but they're very rarely
interacting with Brands and businesses
and people who are selling things via
direct message on Tik Tok that is very
different than on Instagram on Instagram
the DMS are the most heavily used area
people use the DMS on Instagram more
than they use any other feature on
Instagram and that's part of the reason
that it's so easy to sell on Instagram
and so difficult to sell on Tik Tok also
besides the DMS the only other area on
Tik Tok where you can put a link that's
clickable at least is in the link in BIO
you can't put clickable links in your
captions or in comments and so it's very
hard to direct people to a sales page to
a landing page on Tik Tok and oftentimes
what I find is people use Tik Tok to
build a massive audience and then they
funnel that audience pun intended to
their Instagram to continue the sales
process also you want to talk about
saturation on YouTube earlier I said
that the high-end approximation is that
there is about 1 billion YouTube videos
listen to this stat between January and
March of 2023 so just 3 months there
were approximately
14.4 billion videos uploaded on Tik Tok
that's mind-blowing that's crazy that's
14 times more videos on Tik Tok in a
3-month span than there is in the entire
history of YouTube that is absolutely
wild and so while you can still go viral
on Tik Tok and I would like I said
earlier call it the easiest platform to
go viral it's also a highly saturated
platform and a platform where you're
expected to post a lot and then the
final con of Tik Tok which I will say is
a very very very minor Con in my opinion
is that it does skew younger again
there's a lot of people on Tik Tok in
fact there's over two billion people on
Tik Tok now and so every kind of
audience can be found there I follow
people who are over the age of 80 on Tik
Tok they're there they're active they
can build their following however it is
true that compared to all the other
social networks Tik Tok does have the
youngest user base so if you're trying
to build a younger following maybe you
want to use Tik Tok but if you're
someone who's trying to build a
Following over the age of 50 those
people might be more active on Instagram
or Facebook than they would on Tik Tok
if you were to come to me and tell me
that you're going Allin on any one of
these three platforms I wouldn't tell
you you're doing something wrong I truly
think that these are the top three and
the three that you can have the most
success with in 2024 but I have three
questions for you that you should ask
yourself in order to help you pick which
of these three is best for you the first
question is what's your goal do you want
to go viral and become an influencer Do
you want to build influence and
credibility do you want to make more
sales Do you want to build a business Do
you want to build a personal brand do
you want to become known for something
do you want to become a comedian and
Tour the World speaking on stages
depending on your goal you might be more
or less likely to pick certain platforms
so rather than just blind picking a
platform or watching a few more YouTube
videos listening to a few more podcasts
after this trying to get someone to tell
you exactly which one is right for you
instead let's figure that out yourself
by identifying what goals are most
important to you in this next year my
second question that you should ask
yourself is how much content can you
realistically commit to creating and of
course that's going to vary platform to
platform how many YouTube videos can you
realistically create per month how many
Tik toks can you realistically create
per day how many times s can you
realistically post on Instagram per week
ask yourself these questions and
consider the different amounts of time
and effort that each of these platforms
require in order to create a baseline
level of quality content and then the
third question to ask yourself and this
one's really important is what kind of
content do you enjoy making and also you
could kind of add on to that is what
kind of content are you best at making
maybe you're someone who like loves
doing spoken audio like you love just
talking you could talk talk talk all day
long if someone was like Hey I'm
cornering you in a room you got to talk
to me for the next 3 hours you could do
it maybe for you it's not Instagram or
YouTube or Tik Tok maybe for you you're
best suited for podcasting and that's
what you're going to do in 2024 maybe
you're someone who loves photography and
you're really really good at photography
maybe in that case Instagram or
Pinterest is best for you and you're
going to save YouTube and Tik Tok for
the future maybe you're someone who
loves copyrighting so you're going to
stick to a platform like threads or x/
Twitter or Facebook where copyrighting
and the text that you're writing is a
lot more important basically allow your
own personal strengths to help inform
which platform is best for you
ultimately though no matter which
platform you choose like I've said a
million times today you can have success
it's just going to come down to your own
consistency your willingness to embrace
the suck that exists on that platform
and the one thing I haven't mentioned
today is your ability to Niche down your
ability to know exactly what topic
you're talking about and what audience
you're talking to because regardless of
the platform the easiest path to growth
is through knowing exactly who you're
talking to what are the demographics of
that audience and what are you talking
to that audience about when you know
your audience your audience will come to
know you so pick your Niche get
consistent embrace the suck and
regardless of which platform you choose
also know that you can change in the
future just because you picked a
platform for 2024 you can always pivot
and adapt as things change let me know
down in the comments below if you're
watching on YouTube which platform are
you going to be focusing the majority of
your efforts on in 2024 I'd love to hear
from you and also make sure to check out
one of our recent episodes about growing
on Tik Tok or YouTube or Instagram
depending on which one you choose also
if there's a platform that you really
want to focus on this year that we
haven't talked a lot about let's say
something like Facebook or Twitter or
Pinterest let me know that down below as
well and we'll make sure to find some
experts to bring on to the show to teach
you what you need to know thanks so much
for listening and as always happy
[Music]
networking